I'm gonna talk about
why I like being a PM.
Hopefully I've sufficiently
scared everybody now.
It's, well, maybe PMing sucks,
maybe it does, I don't know.
[LAUGH] I'm still finding out.
But let me tell you what I do like.
I like determining the what
of what we work on.
So I saw this quite a bit at Netflix.
Netflix does a really good job of getting
their engineers involved early in projects
where the engineer actually gets
to say how we're gonna build and
what we're gonna build.
And that was really exciting to me.
At Reddit, I kind of just determined
everything that we were gonna work on,
cuz I didn't have a PM, and
I also didn't have a designer, and
I was employee 29 at Reddit.
So, that was kind of all of it all in one.
But I liked that Netflix
helped me in a big corporate
environment get to be able to
say what we're gonna work on.
And I've been the code monkey before
where they basically say, all right,
code monkey, go do that, right?
It's fun too, cuz I like writing code.
I just enjoyed the acts of writing code.
But I also got really into, what are we
gonna build, why are we building this,
who are we gonna build it for?
One of my favorites experiences at Netflix
is how much UX research we got to do.
And I actually got to go watch
people use my product and
then we got to adjust our product
based on customer feedback.
I really like this, right?
And so that's one part about
being a PM that I like,
is that now I get to call the shots.
For the most part I am the product
owner of my organization and
it's not I get to dictate
to them you must do this.
But I get to organize everything and
I get to insert my opinions and my own
flavor and my own strategy on all that.
And that's my favorite part of
being a PM is determining the what.
It is people, people, people so
you get to, that's gonna get distracting,
so I'm gonna scroll up a little bit,
it's people all the time.
It's who you work with, what they're
working on, who you're building it for.
We're gonna talk a lot about users
throughout all this course because being
a PM means being in tune with what your
users are doing and what they want and
what they're failing with and
what the problems they have.
It's a very empathetic position.
And if you're not interested in being
empathetic both on solving business
problem and just an emotional level of how
do people respond to what you're building.
I like it, that's one of my favorite parts
about being a PM is you get to focus on
people all the time.
This kind of sounds weird,
but I like being wrong.
Going back to that Netflix example,
I remember the very first time
I went into that UX lab and
I got to watch someone use my product and
I had built this really cool thing.
I remember it was the first time I ever
shipped Redux, which probably has nothing
to do with this course,
it's just something that stands out to me.
And I was so excited about the technology
that I had used to build this.
And it was this really cool experience.
I had this anticipation that they're gonna
do this, then this, then this, then this.
And I watched them and the person clicked
on it and then it's, what is this?
I don't understand what
you want me to do next.
It was very unclear to this
person then I realized I was so
focused on the technology
of how I built this.
And all of the cool things, the blog posts
that I could put on the tech blog about
this, the conference talks
I could give about it,
because objectively it
was very cool technology.
I had missed the entire damn point, which
is people are gonna go use this, right?
When I saw them using it, I was like,
my god, I'm so wrong and that's so cool,
right?
I kind of felt like this,
right which is why I put this GIF in here.
You build this thing and
you have some anticipation of
how people are gonna use it and
then when it's actually given to someone,
they use it some entirely different way.
So, some of you might have
seen this picture before.
This is called the desire path, right?
You build this sidewalk here,
and you have this anticipation
of people are gonna go do this.
And then people always find, it's,
I actually just want to solve my problem,
right?
I don't wanna go through your cool wizard.
I don't wanna go through your
process that you set up for me.
I have an intent when I arrive
with on your product and
I want to achieve my intent
as fast as possible.
And you will discover these desire paths,
right?
It's not a term I made up,
it's a term that actually exists.
And people will carve that through
your product either intentionally or
unintentionally.
And it's your job as a PM to recognize the
music, I'm wrong, I did this incorrectly,
I was not in tune enough, or
my bet or my experiment didn't work.
And now if you're a PM,
you would go pave this, right?
Because now you have a concrete,
people actually just wanna go here.
So, I love it, I find it exhilarating,
it's my favorite part,
because when you're wrong you're learning.
And I love to learn, and I love to kind
of go in and I love to experiment, right?
I love to come up with a hypothesis of,
I'm gonna try x and see if y happens.
And in reality, z happens and
I was that's so
cool I now know more about
this than I did before.
I read a book about this recently that my
executive coach recommended to me called,
Think Again by Adam Grant.
If that resonates with you, that I'm
learning something and I'm wrong, and
that's a lot of fun, I recommend it cuz
he actually goes into the science of,
why that's cool for some people.
And then the variety of work.
I get to write code
still fairly frequently.
I still write code on
a probably weekly basis.
I'm not shipping a lot of code.
I don't think I've shipped any code
at Snowflake other than to the docs.
But I do say it's a lot of meetings and
emails and
it is a lot of meetings and emails.
But it's also writing content,
it's a lot of marketing plans,
it's a lot of coordination, it's a lot of
working across a variety of products and
projects rather than just on the one
that you're working at the moment.
So the variety of work also keeps
me interested in the work as well.
Any other questions about
what's fun about being a PM?
Yeah.
>> So, [COUGH] I taught professionally for
many years and I know that human factors,
size of jobs, some people really
enjoy that part of the job.
And you can have what are very
bad days and go home,
go to bed, wake back up and go right
back to conversations without really
remembering that you were in a lot
of arguments the day before.
Other people that is not so
much their preference and
this is very much a human factors, jobs.
How do you manage those dynamics where
it's not just about the objectives,
it's also about the personalities and
many times you're being stonewalled for
personal reasons.
Projects you're talking
about kind of offline,
there's some disconnects that you
know you just run into walking in.
How do you manage your own kind of backend
on that coming in levelheaded making
sure you're making
the right kind of advocacy?
>> Sure, it's a good question.
I think I have several answers to that.
One of them is taking care of myself,
right?
Making sure that after work hours,
I make sure that I try and
work relatively 40 hours a week.
I really try hard not to work
much more than that these days.
And then filling my cup at home, right?
Making sure that I'm exercising,
eating well, taking care of my family,
that kind of base of security helps me
a lot when I get into work that I'm
happy to deal with the people
that I'm gonna be dealing with.
I'm generally trying to associate
mostly at work with people,
they don't have to be my buddies
I'm gonna go get beers with but
people that I can get along with, right?
And if I work with a PM that I don't like,
and there's anotherPM in that organization
that I do like, I'll probably just try and
work around them, right?
It's not always possible, right?
So there's frequently that you
do have to deal with jerks.
And then, at some point,
you just have to recognize that I'm
doing the right thing or
I think I'm doing the right thing.
And if you have confidence in that,
working around or
through someone becomes
less of an issue for me.
I generally don't care what
people think about me.
I think if you watch me make an idiot
on camera fairly frequently,
that becomes fairly obvious.
So having a little bit of a thick skin of,
I'm gonna do what I think is best and
at the end of the day,
if this person is upset by that,
then kinda their problem, not mine, right?
>> So you have direct reports or
does the product manager
generally not have direct reports.
>> That would be a product group manager,
is what you would call that position.
I probably should have put that in there.
They're the people that would
manage a group of product managers.
So a product manager typically
is an individual contributor.
So I don't have any reports at Snowflake.
But a product group manager,
just to delineate that a little bit.
Generally they kind of
set the strategy for
their whole area and then they let
their individual products managers kind
of make their own strategy
of their little part.
So, I think that's why I would say I
think that's a pretty cool position.
Because then you work mostly
on strategy and people and
those are two of my favorite
things about being a PM.
But you get into a whole different thing
of what it means to manage someone.
Which is an entirely different skill
set that we're not talking about at all
about today.
>> So just to drive that clarification
home with a specific example.
Would a product group
manager set the strategy for
something like a suite of
products like a Microsoft Office?
And then have dedicated product
managers that report to them for
Word and Outlook and
Excel and things like that.
And maybe those products are bad examples
cuz those products alone are quite large.
>> Yeah, so you got it.
Then yes, I was about to say,
well actually Word has like 30 PM.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Right.
>> You can imagine word
having a PM group manager.
And then each one of those will
be managing the spellcheck and
the formatting and all that kind of stuff.
So yeah, exactly, and
it's gonna depend on company.
Some companies, those PM group managers
really only worry about the people and
don't worry about the strategy.
There's other companies were the PM group
managers set all of the strategy and
all the PMs are just
executing on their strategy.
So there's gonna be some spectrum there.
Yeah, Mark?
>> Where do product owners
fall in the hierarchy,
at least in the works that
you've been a part of?
>> Yeah, product owner.
That's another term that
probably bears talking about.
In my experience, it's not actually
a title, it's kind of like a duty.
So, for example, I would be the product
owner of Streamlet Community Cloud,
which is the product that
I actually manage myself.
But it's not my title product owner
it's just it's a thing that it's,
what would you want to call it,
an aspect of my job, right?
I think that is a title at some companies.
And I think it would be
like a vice president,
would be a product owner, right?
Where they own the entire product and then
they have people that report up to them,
that work on it, but
it's a very ill defined job description.
And it's gonna be very
different based on companies.